---
title: "Celery: タスクの結果をMySQLで確認する"
date: 2023-04-12
lastmod: 2023-04-12
draft: false
gist_id: "91decc44392237a42510180061261903"
gist_url: "https://gist.github.com/hdknr/91decc44392237a42510180061261903"
categories: ["Web開発"]
tags: ["python", "django", "mysql"]
---

## Celery: タスクの結果をMySQLで確認する

PYPI:

~~~
django-celery-results = "^2.5.0"
~~~

`settings`:

~~~py
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = "django-db"
CELERY_RESULT_EXTENDED = True
INSTALLED_APPS += ["django_celery_results"]
~~~



### Database Result Backend

It seems that you are using Django and Celery to run asynchronous tasks and store the results in a database. One possible reason why the result data is always null is that you are not returning anything from your task function². For example, if your task function looks like this:

```python
@app.task
def add(x, y):
    z = x + y
```

Then the result data will be null because you are not returning z. To fix this, you need to add a return statement at the end of your task function:

```python
@app.task
def add(x, y):
    z = x + y
    return z
```

Another possible reason is that you are not using the correct backend to store the results. You need to specify the `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND` setting in your settings.py file and make sure it matches the database you are using¹. For example, if you are using MySQL, you need to set something like this:

```python
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = 'db+mysql://user:password@host/database'
```

You can also use django_celery_results to store the results in a Django model²³. In that case, you need to install django_celery_results and add it to your `INSTALLED_APPS` setting:

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = (
    ...,
    'django_celery_results',
)
```

Then you need to set the `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND` to use the Django model:

```python
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = 'django-db'
```

You also need to run migrations to create the table for storing the results:

```bash
python manage.py migrate django_celery_results
```

Then you can access the results from the TaskResult model by filtering by task_id or task_name²³. For example:

```python
from django_celery_results.models import TaskResult

tr = TaskResult.objects.get(task_id='2781413b-282e-4de8-b134-b338b592ad02')
print(tr.status) # 'SUCCESS'
print(tr.result) # '11'
```

I hope this helps. Do you have any other questions?

ソース: Bing との会話 2023/4/12
- (1) python - How to get celery results model (using django-celery .... https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56034038/how-to-get-celery-results-model-using-django-celery-results-within-task アクセス日時 2023/4/12.
- (2) DjangoとCeleryを使った非同期処理の結果取得までの流れ - Qiita. https://qiita.com/ridai/items/5060e806573b553a33fc アクセス日時 2023/4/12.
- (3) Django に Celery タスクキューを導入し、遅い処理を利用者に .... https://tech.torico-corp.com/blog/django-celery-handson/ アクセス日時 2023/4/12.


###  AsyncResult.result が null

Celery AsyncResult is a class that represents the result of a task. You can use it to check the status and result of a task by passing the task id to its constructor¹. For example:

```python
from tasks import add
from celery.result import AsyncResult

res = AsyncResult('05f3f783-a538-45ed-89e3-c836a2623e8a')
print(res.state) # 'SUCCESS'
print(res.result) # 9
```

However, there are some possible reasons why the result may be always null. One reason is that you are not using a backend to store the results. You need to specify the `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND` setting in your settings.py file and make sure it matches the database or message broker you are using². Another reason is that you are not setting the `CELERY_TASK_TRACK_STARTED` setting to True. This setting enables Celery to update the task status to STARTED when it begins execution². Otherwise, the status may remain PENDING until the result is ready³. A third reason is that you are not waiting for the task to finish before checking the result. You can use the `get` method of AsyncResult to block until the result is available, or use the `ready` method to check if the result is ready¹. For example:

```python
from tasks import add
from celery.result import AsyncResult

res = AsyncResult('05f3f783-a538-45ed-89e3-c836a2623e8a')
if res.ready():
    print(res.state) # 'SUCCESS'
    print(res.result) # 9
else:
    print("Task is not ready yet")
```

I hope this helps. Do you have any other questions?

ソース: Bing との会話 2023/4/12
- (1) celery.result — Celery 5.2.7 documentation. https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/reference/celery.result.html アクセス日時 2023/4/12.
- (2) DjangoとCeleryを使った非同期処理の結果取得までの流れ - Qiita. https://qiita.com/ridai/items/5060e806573b553a33fc アクセス日時 2023/4/12.
- (3) python - Celery AsyncResult - Not working - Stack Overflow. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49733948/celery-asyncresult-not-working アクセス日時 2023/4/12.
